hi
it's barney from bbc good food and
welcome to boston basics
[Music]
in this episode we'll be making one of
my favorite dishes spaghetti carbonara
so for our carbonara we need
some diced pancetta this is smoked
pancetta that's already pre-packed diced
you could use bacon lardons or you could
chop up your own smoked bacon
we've got 150 grams of freshly grated
parmesan
we've got four eggs but we're only going
to be using the yolks we've got a drop
of olive oil a tiny bit of garlic
and our spaghetti now the only real bit
of prep to do for this is to separate
the yolks
from the wipes now you don't have to be
too thorough about this if the yolks
break or you get any whites in the yolks
it's really not that much of a problem
but we just want the yolks for this now
we're just going to beat our yolks with
a fork
just to bring them together i'm going to
add about
a teaspoon or two of olive oil
into a warm pan and then
we're going to add our pancetta
to that as luck would have it that's
going to take about the same amount of
time
as our pasta is going to take to cook
[Music]
now i'm just going to flavor the bacon
with garlic i'm not going to put chopped
garlic in next i don't want too much
garlic flavor
i'm just going to add half a garlic
clove which i'll remove
before the egg and that's just going to
flavor the bacon
as it cooks i'm going to cook that down
gently
stirring it occasionally until all the
fats come out of it
and it's rendered down and it's
beautiful for four people
on about 300 grams of spaghetti now i'm
just cooking this
in some boiling salted water just as you
cook spaghetti normally
and once that goes into the water we're
going to give that a good stir
then we're going to leave that to boil
for about nine minutes
until it's cooked
now at this point when our pancetta is
beautiful and golden needs about a
minute more
i'm just going to take the garlic out
and then i'm going to add some pepper
just to toast off
the pepper and waking it up
so now our pancetta is cooked it's
golden
it's crispy it's let all its fat out i'm
gonna leave that in there that's all
where the flavor is
but i've turned the heat off very
importantly there's no heat on that it's
still sizzling a little bit
but i've turned the heat off our
spaghetti is cooked
i'm not going to drain it i'm going to
use tongs if you haven't got tongs then
you can drain it
one thing that's really important is
that you get a cup full
of the pasta cooking water this is
essential
to getting the carbonara all right now
the next bit
you have to work really quickly and you
have to use your own judgment
we're gonna put the pasta into the in
with the pancetta we're gonna mix
everything together
we're gonna keep on adding water until
the pasta has absorbed
it all and it's mixed in with all those
with all the lovely fat from the
pancetta you'll be really surprised by
just how much
water it will take and then once that's
happened and still with the heat off
we're going to pour over our egg yolks
we're going to mix those through and
they're going to thicken
not scramble in the heat from the pasta
and the pancetta
i'm going to start adding my spaghetti
some my pancetta can you hear that
that's the sound of it sizzling so
there's still lots of heat in there
now remember the heat is still off okay
our pan is hot there's steam coming from
it
and now we're going to mix the two
together
you see instantly it's already soaked up
all that liquid so i'm going to keep on
adding
this hot pasta liquid until
i can start to see it
[Music]
and then you see the pan is dry
so we're going to add
some more liquid we're adding about 50
ml
at a time
i'm going to add the last of this liquid
and then you see the liquids coming out
we've got liquid in the bottom which
means that the egg yolks
aren't going to scramble they're going
to go lovely
and creamy now at this point
this is really essential you need to use
your own judgment
and you need to work really quickly
because once the egg yolks go in
you've got about a minute before they
scramble
so you want to make sure it's not too
hot
now we're going to add our egg yolks
in there and now you want to stir
as quickly as you can like so
and then if that's looking like it's
starting to thicken too fast
you need to take it
off the heat but that's looking perfect
we're going to add most of our cheese
leaving a couple of tablespoons just to
serve at the end
[Music]
so that's how you make a classic
carbonara now if you don't eat meat or
you don't eat pork you can do a very
similar dish with
peas or with chopped green beans or
runner beans
but that is how you make the classic
version so that's been foster basics
carbonara
i'm barbie des madrid thank you very
much for watching and as ever
stay safe get cooking
[Music]
[Applause]
you